NCSA HTTP server
================

Beta Release 0.5

Final release for Gopher and Group Annotation features. In future releases,
  Gopher support will not reappear, and Group Annotation features will reappear
  in a more protocol-supported fashion.

This code is in the public domain. Specifically, we give to the public
domain all rights for future licensing of the source code, all resale
rights, and all publishing rights.

We ask, but do not require, that the following message be included in
all derived works:

Portions developed at the National Center for Supercomputing
Applications at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS GIVES NO WARRANTY, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
FOR THE SOFTWARE AND/OR DOCUMENTATION PROVIDED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Now that that's out of the way, we can move on to more interesting
things.

OVERVIEW
--------

    You've found the Beta release of NCSA's HTTP server. This code is
in testing and development, but is currently fully functional as a
simple HTTP server.


NEW IN RELEASE 0.5
------------------

    o Slight bug in gopher support fixed
    o Standalone support added

NEW IN RELEASE 0.4
------------------

    o Added annotation server support.  See README.GROUP-ANNOTATIONS.
    o Added access logging capability.
    o Added HTTP/1.0 compatibility (3rd+ args of GET command ignored).
    o Changed handling of full hostnames.
    o Fixed bug with index.html not being recognized unless a trailing
      slash was appended to the directory name.
    o Fixed bug with extraneous null appended to end of file data
      stream.
    o Fixed bug handling directory URL's with trailing slashes.
    o Made a little more Ultrix-friendly.

NEW IN RELEASE 0.3
------------------

    o Security hole (should be the last) fixed
    o Nearly complete drop-in gopher support. See README.GOPHER for details
    o Not being able to find the config file does not send back a path

NEW IN RELEASE 0.2
------------------

    o Two security holes fixed
    o Double slashes in root index fixed
    o Not being able to find the error files no longer hangs the server

FEATURES
--------

    o Directory aliasing and denial. The server can be configured to
map different directories to different places in the filesystem, and
easily deny access to a particular directory or file by mapping it to
something which does not exist. The interface is designed to be simple.

    o Automatic directory index files and on-the-fly index generation.
If the server finds that the client is requesting a directory, it
first checks for a file, by default called "index.html" but which can
be compiled to any name, and if it does not find such a file it
generates an HTML index of the directory and sends it back to the
client.

    o Drop-in gopher support. This server is able to automatically
interpret gopher directory structures and construct, on the fly, HTML
indexes of them. Should be faster than gopherd in HTML mode.

    o Group annotation server capabilities.  See
README.GROUP-ANNOTATIONS for more details.

    o Access logging.  See httpd.h for more details.

    o Designed to be small and low-impact: the entire source is
3,000 lines, with full gopher, annotation server, and logging support.

FUTURE PLANS
------------

    o HTTP2 (HTTP/1.0) support.

    o On the fly uncompression.

That should be all you need. E-mail problems, suggestions for features
or documentation, cash donations, food, etc. to httpd@ncsa.uiuc.edu.
We encourage you to try and break the server, or compromise its
security, and let us know how you did it so we can fix it.

Rob, Eric, Marc
httpd@ncsa.uiuc.edu
